1 . Java's journey began with the Green Team, a group within Sun Microsystems led by James Gosling.

3 billion devices run Java

Types of Java Applications
Standalone Application – Traditional desktop applications that run on individual machines (e.g., Media Player, Antivirus). Built using AWT and Swing.
Web Application – Runs on a server and generates dynamic web pages. Built using Servlets, JSP, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JSF, etc.
Enterprise Application – Large-scale distributed applications like banking systems with features like security and load balancing. Built using EJB.
Mobile Application – Applications for mobile devices, mainly developed using Android and Java ME.

Java supports compiler and interpreter

(Compiler: Like translating an entire book before reading.
Interpreter: Like translating each sentence while reading.)

Difference Between JDK, JRE, and JVM
JVM (Java Virtual Machine)

An abstract machine that executes Java bytecode.
Provides a runtime environment by loading, verifying, and executing code.
Platform-dependent but enables Java to be platform-independent.
JRE (Java Runtime Environment)

A set of tools that provides the runtime environment for Java applications.
Contains JVM + libraries required for execution.
Physically exists and is used to run Java programs.
JDK (Java Development Kit)

A complete software development kit for Java applications.
Contains JRE + development tools (compiler, debugger, documentation generator, etc.).
Used to develop and compile Java programs.

To compile:
javac Hello.java
To execute:
java Hello

When we compile Java program using javac tool, the Java compiler converts the source code into byte code.

class: Used to declare a class in Java.
public: An access modifier that makes the method visible to all.
static: Allows a method to be called without creating an object, saving memory.
void: Specifies that the method does not return any value.
main(): The entry point of a Java program.
String[] args: Used to handle command-line arguments.
System.out.println(): Prints output to the console; System is a class, out is a PrintStream object, and println() is a method of PrintStream.
 